# 1.06: Mad Libs Project

The specifications and rubric are here: [Mad Libs Specs](u1l06-specs.md)

## Learning Objectives
Students will be able to...
* Apply basic Python knowledge about inputs/outputs and variables to create a game of Madlibs.
* Practice good debugging skills.

### Activity In-Class
> Mad Libs is the world’s greatest word game—and can make anyone the funniest person in the room!  Mad Libs are stories with words removed and replaced by blank spaces.  One player acts as the “reader” and asks the other players, who haven’t seen the story, to fill in the blanks with adjectives, nouns, exclamations, colors, adjectives, and more. These words are inserted into the blanks and then the story is read aloud to hilarious results.  There are no winners or losers, only laughter.

> *-----from Mad Libs Live*

1. Have you ever played *Mad Libs*?

2. Review the *Project Overview*

### Project Overview
* If you don't know Mad Libs, please research :)
* Prompts must ask for the correct *noun-verb* combinations.
* Please refer to the grading rubric repeatedly throughout the project to ensure they are meeting all the requirements.
* Identify the sub problems of MadLibs.
* Brainstorm and identify what variables, inputs, and print statements you will need.

---
## The Project

Using Python, Use variables, input, and printing to create a Mad Lib. You will also practice *designing* a project by planning out your Mad Lib before implementing it.  Part of the project is to use your creativity to design your own unique story.

Mad Libs are a fun way to tell a story. The story is pre-written except for a few missing words.  The final story is hidden from the user.  The user is asked a series of questions in order to fill in the missing words before seeing the story. Then the story is read off with the user's words mixed in!

---
## Details

### Behavior

* The program will print out the title of the Mad Libs story, as well as a short explanation of game play

    ```
    A Day in NYC: a Mad Lib.
    Welcome! You are about to play a fantastic word game.
    I will ask you for nouns, verbs, adjectives, proper nouns and adverbs.
    Using those words I will create an unexpected story for you!
    ```

* The program should then prompt the user to enter in nouns, verbs, adjectives, proper nouns, and adverbs

    ```
    Enter a proper noun: Ariana Grande
    Enter a place in New York City: Times Square
    Enter another place in New York City: The Empire State Building
    Enter an adverb: quickly
    Enter a noun: donut
    Enter an adjective: slimy
    Enter a verb: prance
    Enter an adjective: beautiful
    ```

* After all the words have been entered. The program will print out the story.  You will need to create a story of your own choosing.  Keep it clean and fun.  Here is an example of a day in New York City.

    ```
  It was a beautiful day in New York City. Our hero, Ariana Grande, was on a walk from Times Square to The Empire State Building. Ariana pranced rather quickly because he/she lived in beautiful New York for only a few months. Suddenly a slimy donut appeared out of nowhere!!!
	```

### Implementation

Plan out your story on pencil and paper first, before you start implementing the program.

1. Create your story
2. Select the missing words
3. Determine each words part of speech
4. Create introduction
5. Create questions
6. Divide story into print statements
---
### Requirements
As mentioned above the program must request words from the user. The following **must** be included in the program:

* 10 different words inputted
* Variable names should correspond to the part of speech requested and part of the story they belong to (e.g. `first_noun`, `second_verb`, etc.)
* _You may only use a total of 3 print statements to tell your story_
---

## Student Code - `main.py`

```python
# 1.06: Mad Libs Project

### START ###
# Create your variables/input prompts here:

#-------------------------
#Write your max 3 sentences of your mad lib here:


### END ###
```