# 1.05: Debugging

## Learning Objectives
Students will be able to...

* Demonstrate their understanding of key concepts covered up to this point.

* Define and identify: **debugging, syntax errors**.

* Analyze and respond to error messages.

## Activity In-Class
You will now be explore how to read, analyze, and respond to errors in code. You'll be doing this a lot!! Even seasoned programmers spend most of their time figuring out what was wrong with their first-draft of a program, and repeatedly revising it until it's just right. Python tries to help you out.

### A First Error

Read through this code and predict what will be printed out. Remember to go line by line, as if you were the interpreter.

```PYTHON
favorite_number_str = input("What is your favorite number: ")
birth_month_str = input("What month where you born in: ")

lucky_number = int(favorite_number_str) + int(birth_month_str)
print("Your lucky number is " + str(lucky_number))
```
- This code has an error in it. When you run the code, it should generate an error message.
- Run the code now by hovering over the brackets to the left of the first line, and pressing the triangle.
- Enter `10` as your favorite number and `March` as the month you were born in.

You should get something like this:
```PYTHON
What is your favorite number: 10
What month where you born in: March
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
ValueError                                Traceback (most recent call last)
<ipython-input-3-b075f827caf5> in <module>()
      2 birth_month_str = input("What month where you born in: ")
      3 
----> 4 lucky_number = int(favorite_number_str) + int(birth_month_str)
      5 print("Your lucky number is " + str(lucky_number))

ValueError: invalid literal for int() with base 10: 'March'

```
**Congratulations, you've caused your first error!**


### Error Reports
When you run a Python program the interpreter executes as much of the program as it can, line by line. If it reaches a line with an error, it halts and reports the problem. The report can be hard to read, but with practice it gets easier.

The most useful line of the report is the last one. In this example, it says there is a `ValueError` involving something with integers, base 10, and the input `March`.

A `ValueError` occurs in Python when a command receives an input that has the right type, but an inappropriate value.

The next most useful part of the report is the partial listing of the code with an arrow pointing to the line where the error occured (line 4 in this example). Something is wrong with the line the is generating `lucky_number`.

Putting these facts together, we can spot the problem: 
- line 4 is trying to make integers out of the two inputs so it can add them together to make `lucky_number`.
- - But the `int()` function doesn't know how to interpret "March" as a base 10 value (it's not smart enough to decide it should be 3, as it's the 3rd month).

### Debugging

**Debugging** is the process of tracking and fixing errors in your code. There's no one recipe for how to do it -- it requires a lot of thinking, reasoning, and testing. But there are many good habits that can help. The first rule of debugging is: *Read the error message*


Let's try applying that rule to another program with a mistake in it. Read the following code and try to predict what it will do. Then run the code by hovering over the brackets to the left of the first line and clicking the triangle.
```PYTHON
month = "February"
date = 6
year = 2018

print("Today is " + mnth + " " + date + ", " + year + ".")
```
The error report this code generates should look something like this:
```
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
NameError                                 Traceback (most recent call last)
<ipython-input-9-3bbf058bce09> in <module>()
      3 year = 2018
      4 
----> 5 print("Today is " + mnth + " " + date + ", " + year + ".")

NameError: name 'mnth' is not defined
```
Again, the most useful line is the very last one. It tells us there is a `NameError`. A `NameError` occurs when Python tries to use the value of a variable but the variable has not yet been introduced into the program. This usually happens because of a typo in the name of the variable, which is the case here.

Read the second part of the error message:
```
name 'mnth' is not defined
```

Where is the arrow pointing? To line 5. And indeed, in line 5 you can see the typo: we've omitted the `'o'` from `month`. When we spell it correctly, the program runs without error.


### Action at a Distance

Here's a slightly trickier error. Look at this code, see if you can spot the error, then run it.
```PYTHON
day = "Tuesday"
weater = "rainy"
teacher = "Mr. Miller"

print("Today is " + day + ".")
print("The weather is " + weather)
print("The teacher is " + teacher)
```

The error report should read:

```
NameError                                 Traceback (most recent call last)
<ipython-input-10-92185a5b6c96> in <module>()
      4 
      5 print("Today is " + day + ".")
----> 6 print("The weather is " + weather)
      7 print("The teacher is " + teacher)

NameError: name 'weather' is not defined
```

Again, start with the last line. It tells us that there is a `NameError`, and that Python doesn't know about a variable named `weather`. Can you spot the typo?

Next, look at the line indicated by the arrow, line 6:
```PYTHON
print("The weather is " + weather)
```

Now can you spot the typo?

This case is trickier than before, because line 6 is not the problem. There is no typo in line 6. The problem is back at line 2, where we told Python to create a variable to hold today's weather. That's where we committed a typo:
```PYTHON
weater = "rainy"
```

Python doesn't know about the spelling of English words. You could name a variable `w` or `lxfh2k` and it would be happy. So in this case, it's happy to accept the variable name is the misspelled `weater`. The only problem arises when we spell the variable name differently (as it happens "correctly") in line 6. That's the first time Python tries to get the value of a variable with an unfamiliar name, so that's where it reports a problem.

--- 

## Independent Activity
As a comment, summarize (as concisely as possible) what each error type does. 

* SyntaxError
* TypeError
* ValueError
* NameError
* IndentationError

## Student Code - `main.py`
```python
# 1.05 Debugging

## In-Class Activity - Code Error Practice ##
# Use this space to practice making errors. You may leave it blank when finished testing/debugging.
### START ###




### END ###

## Independent Activity

# SyntaxError
# TypeError
# ValueError
# NameError
# IndentationError

```