# Lesson Plan 1.04: Variables and User Input

## Learning Objectives

Students will be able to...

* Define and identify: **comments,  storing, mutability, variable assignment, input**.
* Assign and swap variables.
* Store user input into a variable.

## Do Now 1.04

### In your Console, type and run the following code

```python
a = input("What is your name? ")
# a = "cats and dogs"

print("Hello there, " + a)
```

#### Discussion

1. What did `input` do?
2. What did the string between the parentheses do?
3. What would changing that string do? (it changes the prompt given to the user)
4. Briefly describe what the `#` does?
5. Briefly describe what `input` does?

### For Your Notes

* **input**: user data given to the app.
* **Mutability**: you can change an existing value.
* In Python, `input` lets a program take input from the console and use it in the code.
* Do not use other types of data for now. Only strings.

## Program A - Practice Input Statements
* A. Write a small program that asks for 2 inputs and the result will print both user inputs into one statement

* B. Write another program that takes input only

#### Example Program Output
```
What is your favorite color? blue
What is your favorite animal? butterfly

I really like the butterfly, especially when they are colored blue!
```

Some ideas: 
* Ask your user what their favorite class and who their favorite teacher are
* Ask your user to complete a sentence with a noun and adjective

Instructions
1. Plan your lines of code: How many variables will you need?
2. How many print statements do you need?
3. How many lines of code do you think you need?

## Program B - Magic Genie Project

* Make sure you  feel comfortable saving things as variables and can print multiple statements to the console.
* Practice making various types of print statements

## Student Code - `main.py`
``` python
# Lesson 1.04: Variables and User Input
# You may include print statements with line breaks for easier readability

### Do Now
# Complete the Do Now activity here

#### For Your Notes
# Type any notes you have here

### Practice Input Statements
# [A] Practice -  Write your program below this line

# [B] Magic Genie Project - Write your program below this line

```