# Lesson 2.01: Data Types & Casting

## Learning Objectives

Students will be able to...

* Define and identify: **type, string, casting, floating point number (float), integer**
* Describe different representations of data in Python
* Convert from one data type to another data type

### 1. Do Now
Open up the console

Type the following code

```python
     x_stage1 = 123
     y_stage1 = 456

     x_stage2 = str(x_stage1)
     y_stage2 = str(y_stage1)

     print(x_stage2 + y_stage2)
```

Discuss with a partner or think on your own

### Answer the following

1. What type are the variables `x_stage1` and `y_stage1`?
2. What type are the variables `x_stage2` and `y_stage2`?
3. How would you convert the string `'100'` to an integer?

### 2. Discuss

#### As a comment

* Define **type**.How do **types** represent data (`strings`, `int`, and `float`).
* What do you think `str(123)` does.

### Practice on Your Own

* This process of changing data types as **casting**.
* The `int` function casts number data into an integer

Casting `string` to `int` looks like this:

```python
    n = int(input())
    9
    type(n)
```

Output from Python:
```
    <class 'int'>
```

Because Python 3 is strongly typed, concatenating (combining) strings and numbers requires casting.

```python
    n = int(input())
    9
    print ("You entered " + n)
```

Output from Python:
```
    TypeError: Can't convert 'int' object to str implicitly
```

`integer` to `string`

```python
    n = int(input())
    9
    print ("You entered " + str(n))
```

Output from Python:
```
    You entered 9
```

#### As a comment

How would you produce the following output?
```
    Give me a number you want to multiply by 2: 4
    8
```

* Explain to students that in Python
  * when asking for input from the user, the input is automatically stored as a string
  * if the input will be used for calculations or numeric comparisons, it will be necessary to cast it to another data type.

#### Swapping Variables Discussion

* Go over the method of swapping two variables using Python syntax covered so far, with a third temporary variable.
  * Python includes a way to swap two variables directly. The syntax for this will be covered in a later unit.

#### Student Sharing

* Call on 2-3 students to write their answers on the board.
* Discuss what would happen if the user types in 1.5 instead of 4.
* If input is a float, can cast with `float(num)`
* `type`: ask students what they think `type('a')` would output.  
* Why might you want to use `type`?

### 3. Lab

* Practice predicting what casting will do to inputs.
* Create a halving program, and a variant of the same program that converts any fractional output values to whole numbers.