# 2.06 Game Loop

## Do Now

* How would you print out something 10 times? What about 100? What about 1,000?
* Record your answer as a comment

---

### Example 1
In the IDE or the console, type the following code
```python
while True:
    print('a')
```

As a comment, answer the following:

1. What happens when you run this code?
2. Try using other Boolean expressions instead of `True`.
3. Using a `while` loop, how would you print out something 10 times? 100? 1000?

### Example 2
In the IDE or the console, type the following code
```python
loopCounter = 0
while loopCounter < 10:
    print('Hello World')
```
As a comment, answer the following:
1. How many times will it print out?
2. What is the output?

### Example 3
In the IDE or the console, type the following code

```python
loopCounter = 0
while loopCounter < 10:
    loopCounter = loopCounter + 1
    print('Hello World')
```
As a comment, answer the following:

1. How many times will it print out?
2. What is the output?
---

## Tic-Tac-Toe Revisited

Create this game again using lists and indexes. Updated rules are below.

* Allow users to keep playing (max 9 times).

* Print the diagram before play begins:

```python
     1 | 2 | 3  
    -----------
     4 | 5 | 6  
    -----------
     7 | 8 | 9
```

* Use variables to decide whose turn it is. Greet the players as "X's" or "O's".
* User picks a location on the board by entering a number.
* Depending on the location that the user chose, update the corresponding board position.
* Print the updated board out.
* You will not need to determine the winner at this point.

### Bonus Behavior

There are eight possible ways to win a Tic-Tac-Toe game.

* After each turn in the game, check to see if the most recent player has won the game.
* Print appropriate messages if the X's player wins, or if the O's player wins.
* If no one has won the game after 9 moves, declare the game to be a draw.
 
---

## Student Code - `main.py`
```python
# 2.06 Tic-Tac-Toe Revisited

## DO NOW ---------------------

### EXAMPLE 1
# 1.
# 2. 
# 3. 

### EXAMPLE 2
# 1.
# 2. 

### EXAMPLE 3
# 1.
# 2. 

## TIC TAC TOE REVISITED --------------
### START ###



### END ###

```
---
