# Lesson 2.03: Conditionals - Part 2

## `if-statements`

* In order to write useful programs, we almost always need the ability to check conditions and change the behavior of the program accordingly.
* **Conditional** statements give us this ability to affect the **flow of control**.
* The simplest way is the `if-statement`. The Boolean expression after `if` is called the **condition** or **conditional**. 


**If the conditional is `True`**, then the indented statement gets executed. 

**If `False`**, the if-statement ends..

Code Trace these examples:

#### Example 1
```python
x=10
if x > 0:
    print("x is positive")
```
#### Example 2
```python
animal = input("What is your favorite animal?")
if animal == 'cat' or animal == 'dog':
	print("A great pet!")
else:
	print("Good choice")
```

## `else` and `elif`
`else` is used when there is something that needs to be executed if the conditional is `False`
* You do not have to include an `else` with every `if-statement`

`elif`
Short for "else if". 
* Sometimes there are more than two possibilities and we need more than two branches. It allows us to check for *multiple* expressions via a chained conditional. 
* If the condition for `if` is `False`, the program checks the condition of the next elif block and so on. 

```python
num = 0
if num > 0:
	print('positive')
elif num < 0:
	print('negative')
else:
	print('0')
```

`if` is always the first in a sequence. 
After the program gets to the `if` statement, either the condition of the statement is true, and it runs the `if` code
Or its `false`, and then the program checks for an attached elif/else.

## Review
* `if-else` statements control the flow of the program by providing ways to make decisions
` * Boolean expression(condition), the colon, and the indentation

* `else/elif` is used when there are two or more possibilities and the condition determines which one gets executed.
  *  If the `if-statement` conditional is `true`, then the action under the `if` statement is executed. 
  *  If the `if-statement` conditional is `false`, then the program will check for an `else/elif`.
  *  when none are present, the program exits the `if` statement and continues on with the program (like it never happened)

## Re-write the schedule program
Given the hour of the day, print out where you should be. If you're not doing anything else you should be "sleeping".

### Example Output:
```
What time of day is it? 9
You should be in Intro to Computer Science!

```
```
What time of day is it? 3
It's the end of the day! Go home.
```

### Expected Behavior
* Write a schedule for at least 12 hours of your day.  You do *not* need to code for a 24hr clock (ie. 13:00, 14:00, 16:00), just a 12hr
* The program will ask the user (using `input` statements) for the time of day, then it will return a print statement with what your scheduled activity is
* Reminder: `input` statements are type` str` by default. you need to _cast_ your input as an `int`
* cast to `int`
 
```python
 int(input("Give me a number "))
```
* If you get one working, then the implementation for the rest will follow :)

---

## Student Code - `main.py`
```python
# 2.03 - Conditionals - Part 2
## Re-write the schedule program
# Given the hour of the day, print out where you should be. If you're not doing anything else you should be "sleeping".

### START ###



### END ###
```